Portenta X8 tutorial: custom image building[PC-920] (#354)
arduino/docs-content: content/hardware/04.pro/boards/portenta-x8/tutorials/image-building/content.md

  git clone https://github.com/arduino/lmp-manifest.git
  ```
  ![Cloning lmp-manifest repository](assets/git_clone_lmp-manifest.png)
2. Build the Docker Image:
  ```
  cd lmp-manifest
  docker build -t yocto-build ./lmp-manifest
  ```
  ![Building a Docker Image](assets/docker_build.png)

#### Run The Docker Image (Builder)
You will be running the image with the `-v` argument to add a volume, this will make the second drive storage unit available inside the virtual machine, so we will be able to store all the data safely.

***If you do not use a volume while running the image, you will lose the data when the image stops***

Run the `yocto-build` builder image with:
```
docker run -v <source>:/dockerVolume -it yocto-build bash
```

Switch to the `builder` user, the password is **builder**:
```
su builder
```

### Setup and Build

***You can download a bash script that wraps all the upcoming steps [here](assets/portenta-x8_build.sh)***

#### Setup the Environment
Now that you are running inside the Docker Image you are already provided with some tools like **git-repo** which has been installed on the image building process, this was the providing process on the previous section.

> First of all set up the git config with your credentials, they don't need to be the real ones, they are just needed to pull the data from the git-repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First configure git with your credentials. They don't need to be the real ones, but are required by `git-repo` to pull.
```
Unsure if you mean the tool (which is what I am assuming) or if you mean a git repository.

Copy paste the following:
```
git config --global user.email "you@example.com"
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
```
![Adding credentials to git config](assets/git_config.png)

> You can change the directory to home, and initialize the **git-repo** repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change to the home directory, and initialize the repository using **repo**:
```
similar to the previous suggestion.

```
cd ~
repo init -u https://github.com/arduino/lmp-manifest.git -m arduino.xml -b release
```
![Git-repo initialization](assets/repo_init.png)

> and pull the needed files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then pull the needed files:
```

- `lmp-base`: insecure image without ostree, developer friendly, not OTA compatible
- `lmp`: secure image without xwayland
- `lmp-xwayland`: secure image with xwayland support

***`lmp-partner-arduino-image` will be better supported in the near future.***

```bash
DISTRO=lmp-xwayland MACHINE=portenta-x8 . setup-environment
```

It will then switch automatically to a new folder.
Now to accept the EULA:

```bash
echo "ACCEPT_FSL_EULA = \"1\"" >> conf/local.conf
```

![Setup Portenta X8 DISTRO](assets/x8_distro_setup.png)

#### Build Image With Bitbake

To start building the image, run:

```
bitbake lmp-partner-arduino-image
```
***This process takes ~7h depending on the HW***

![Compile Portenta X8 image](assets/x8_build.png)

In case you want to use your computer while it builds, (the build is going to take time and resources) you should lower the used threads.
Do so by opening `conf/local.conf` and lower the values of the following variables:

- `BB_NUMBER_PARSE_THREADS = "4"`
- `BB_NUMBER_THREADS = "4"`

And add:

- `PARALLEL_MAKE = "-j 4"`

Once it finishes you will see something similar to:
![Portenta X8 Image finished compilation](assets/x8_build_finished.png)

> #### Setup Manufacturing Tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Setup Manufacturing Tools

```

> To flash your board you will need to compile another `DISTRO`.
> To get those tools go into the home folder and setup your distro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To flash your board you will need to compile another distro to get additional tools. 
First go into your home folder and change `DISTRO`:
```
Is this taking place in the users $HOME?

```
cd ..
DISTRO=lmp-mfgtool MACHINE=portenta-x8 . setup-environment
echo "ACCEPT_FSL_EULA = \"1\"" >> conf/local.conf
echo "MFGTOOL_FLASH_IMAGE = \"lmp-partner-arduino-image\"" >> conf/local.conf
```
![Flashing tools DISTRO setup](assets/tools_distro_setup.png)

> #### Build Manufacturing Tools: Flash The Board

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Build Manufacturing Tools: Flash The Board

```

To compile and get the tools you will need to type:
```
bitbake mfgtool-files
```
![Compiling flashing tools](assets/tools_build.png)

After completion:
![Tools compilation finished](assets/tools_finished.png)

> ***This process takes ~2h depending on the HW***

Reviewer: ```suggestion
***This process takes ~2h depending on your build host***
```

#### Save Your Image For Flashing

> After the built was successful you need to save the needed files to your physical store unit, you have set that up before on `docker run` setting the volume pointing to the **dockerVolume** directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a successful build,  save the needed files to the host volume you mounted with `docker run`. 
```

Use the following commands to copy the files to your storage unit:

```
cd ..
mkdir ../../dockerVolume/flashing
DEPLOY_FOLDER=../../dockerVolume/flashing

cp -L build-lmp-mfgtool/deploy/images/portenta-x8/mfgtool-files-portenta-x8.tar.gz $DEPLOY_FOLDER
cp -L build-lmp-xwayland/deploy/images/portenta-x8/imx-boot-portenta-x8 $DEPLOY_FOLDER
cp -L build-lmp-xwayland/deploy/images/portenta-x8/u-boot-portenta-x8.itb $DEPLOY_FOLDER
cp -L build-lmp-xwayland/deploy/images/portenta-x8/sit-portenta-x8.bin $DEPLOY_FOLDER
cp -L build-lmp-xwayland/deploy/images/portenta-x8/lmp-partner-arduino-image-portenta-x8.wic $DEPLOY_FOLDER

cd $DEPLOY_FOLDER
tar xvf mfgtool-files-portenta-x8.tar.gz
```

![Copying compiled files](assets/copy_files.png)

You will be able to see the copied files on your OS file explorer
![Checking copied files with file explorer](assets/docker_volume_explorer.png)

> Now you have all the needed files to flash your Portenta X8 with your custom image, to do so follow the [How to flash the Portenta X8](image-flashing) tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is repeated below

---
beta: true
title: 'How To Build a Custom Image for Your Portenta X8'
description: 'This tutorial teaches you how to compile a custom image for your Portenta X8 through USB'
difficulty: intermediate
tags:
  - Embedded Linux
  - Building
  - Foundries.io
author: 'Pablo Marquínez'
hardware:
  - hardware/04.pro/boards/portenta-x8
---

## Overview

> In this tutorial you will learn how to build an image for the Portenta X8 with the files provided from Foundries.io.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial you will learn how to build an image for the Portenta X8 with the files provided from Foundries.io.
Building your image locally is helpful to quickly debug certain aspects of the systems, like bootloader or kernel support.
Please keep in mind that images built locally cannot register to a FoundriesFactory and will not be OTA compatible, but this is a good alternative for those who do not have a FoundriesFactory subscription.
For FoundriesFactory subscribers, we strongly suggest to make use of the Factory continuous integration system for creating your images.
```

Reviewer 2: then after this is merged we can work on another tutorial to help subscribers to learn how to trigger new builds

***In this tutorial we are using Ubuntu LTS 22.04 inside the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) through the Windows Terminal***

## Goals

- Provide your Linux machine with the needed software
- Set up your computer with the required SSH keys and API Tokens
- Get the required files
- Configure the building settings
- Build the image

### Required Hardware and Software

- [Arduino Portenta X8](https://store.arduino.cc/portenta-x8)
- Linux distribution [compatible with the Yocto Project](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/system-requirements.html#supported-linux-distributions)
- Arduino Create account [Login](https://login.arduino.cc/login)
- Arduino Pro Cloud Subscription. [Learn more about the Pro Cloud](https://www.arduino.cc/pro/hardware/product/portenta-x8#pro-cloud).

> - Foundries.io account (linked with the Pro Cloud subscription) [Login](https://app.foundries.io/login/)
> - FoundriesFactory® ([Check the Getting Started tutorial](https://docs.arduino.cc/tutorials/portenta-x8/out-of-the-box))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Optional: Foundries.io account (linked with the Pro Cloud subscription) [Login](https://app.foundries.io/login/)
- Optional: FoundriesFactory® ([Check the Getting Started tutorial](https://docs.arduino.cc/tutorials/portenta-x8/out-of-the-box))
```

## Instructions

### Folder Structure Overview

First we need to structure our directories as following:

```
home
└── builds
  ├── portenta-x8
  └── .bin
    └── repo
```

To start, lets navigate to the home directory on our machine with `cd ~`, and create the build directory with `mkdir builds`.

> ### Setup SSH Keys and API Token
> 
> Next to get the needed image files, we need to setup our SSH Keys and Foundries API token from **FoundriesFactory**.
> 
> To setup your SSH Key, go to the `.ssh` directory, `cd ~/.ssh`. Crete a new key with `ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C <yourEmail>"`.
> 
> Follow the instructions, after which you should have two new files in the directory: `<yourSSHkey> and <yourSSHkey>.pub`
> 
> Now initialize the `ssh-agent` with `eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"`. Add your key with `ssh-add ~/.ssh/<yourSSHkey>`.
> 
> ***Make sure your `ssh-agent` is running, you can check the keys that your agent has with the command `ssh-add -l` if there is no key attached repeat the steps of adding the key and check if it was successfully added***

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if this section is really needed, can you double check?
```suggestion
### Setup SSH Keys and API Token

Next to get the needed image files, we need to setup our SSH Keys and Foundries API token from **FoundriesFactory**.

To setup your SSH Key, go to the `.ssh` directory, `cd ~/.ssh`. Crete a new key with `ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C <yourEmail>"`.

Follow the instructions, after which you should have two new files in the directory: `<yourSSHkey> and <yourSSHkey>.pub`

Now initialize the `ssh-agent` with `eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"`. Add your key with `ssh-add ~/.ssh/<yourSSHkey>`.

***Make sure your `ssh-agent` is running, you can check the keys that your agent has with the command `ssh-add -l` if there is no key attached repeat the steps of adding the key and check if it was successfully added***
```

Author: I needed the ssh key for fetching some repos when bitbake

The API Token needs to be there in order to access the factory source code

Author: not needed

```
git clone https://source.foundries.io/factories/<factory>/containers.git
```

Make sure you clone the repository outside our `builds` folder. You can remove it after you finish your check.

You can check your Git configuration with `git config --global -l` you should see:

```
http.https://source.foundries.io.extraheader=Authorization: basic <yourToken on base64>
```

### Google Repo: Fetch Yocto Project Layers

Google's Repo application handles fetching the repositories (Yocto Project layers) that will be used in the build process.

Use these commands to:

1. create a `.bin` folder to install the `repo` application in
2. add it to the system `PATH` so you will be able to use the `repo` command anywhere
3. download repo into `.bin`
4. set permission so that all users and run it.

```
mkdir -p ~/builds/.bin
PATH="${HOME}/builds/.bin:${PATH}"
curl https://storage.googleapis.com/git-repo-downloads/repo > ~/builds/.bin/repo
chmod a+rx ~/builds/.bin/repo
```

Now you should be able to access the command `repo` anywhere.

### Set up Your Repository

Switch to your build directory and create a folder to store the source code:

```
cd ~/builds/
mkdir portenta-x8
cd portenta-x8
```

> Get your repository link:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Get your repository link. If you do not have a FoundriesFactory subscription, use the Public repository link, otherwise you can use your Factory repository link:
```

- Public repository: [lmp-manifest](https://github.com/arduino/lmp-manifest) -> https://github.com/arduino/lmp-manifest.git
- Your Factory repository: `https://source.foundries.io/factories/<yourFactory>/lmp-manifest` -> `https://source.foundries.io/factories/<yourFactory>/lmp-manifest.git`

Now initialize the repository:

```
repo init -u <repository> -m arduino.xml -b <master/devel>
```

You can now download the files you will need by running `repo sync`.

## Build The Image

### Set Up The Environment

You can set `DISTRO` to:

> - `lmp-base`: unsecure image without ostree and optee
> - `lmp`: secure image without xwayland
> - `lmp-xwayland`: secure image with xwayland support

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `lmp-base`: unsecure image without ostree, developer friendly, not OTA compatible
- `lmp`: secure image without xwayland
- `lmp-xwayland`: secure image with xwayland support
```

- Optional: FoundriesFactory® ([Check the Getting Started tutorial](https://docs.arduino.cc/tutorials/portenta-x8/out-of-the-box))

## Instructions

### Folder Structure Overview

First we need to structure our directories as following:

```
home
└── builds
  ├── portenta-x8
  └── .bin
    └── repo
```

To start, lets navigate to the home directory on our machine with `cd ~`, and create the build directory with `mkdir builds`.

### Setup SSH Keys and API Token

Next to get the needed image files, we need to setup our SSH Keys and Foundries API token from **FoundriesFactory**.

To setup your SSH Key, go to the `.ssh` directory, `cd ~/.ssh`. Crete a new key with `ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C <yourEmail>"`.

Follow the instructions, after which you should have two new files in the directory: `<yourSSHkey> and <yourSSHkey>.pub`

Now initialize the `ssh-agent` with `eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"`. Add your key with `ssh-add ~/.ssh/<yourSSHkey>`.

***Make sure your `ssh-agent` is running, you can check the keys that your agent has with the command `ssh-add -l` if there is no key attached repeat the steps of adding the key and check if it was successfully added***

> ### Foundries.io API Token
> 
> ***This step is only mandatory if you want to get the source code from your Factory***
> 
> To get the needed files (source code) for compiling the image we need access to our Factory repository.
> 
> To make that happen, go to your [Foundries account > Settings > Api Tokens](https://app.foundries.io/settings/tokens/):
> ![API token page on Foundries.io](assets/foundries_API_tokens.png)
> 
> Press the "New Token" button and follow the instructions.
> ![API token creation page](assets/foundries_API_token_create.png)
> 
> Now make sure you select the correct scopes to "Use for source code access" and choose your derived Factory.
> ![API token creation page](assets/foundries_API_token_create_scopes.png)
> 
> Once it has been generated, copy the token shown.
> ![API token creation page](assets/foundries_API_token_created.png)
> 
> On your machine create a variable to store the token and add it to the global configuration for Git:
> 
> ```
> API_TOKEN="<YourToken>"
> git config --global http.https://source.foundries.io.extraheader "Authorization: basic $(echo -n $API_TOKEN | openssl base64)"
> ```
> 
> Check that your token is properly configured by cloning the "containers" repository of your Factory:
> 
> ```
> git clone https://source.foundries.io/factories/<factory>/containers.git
> ```
> 
> Make sure you clone the repository outside our `builds` folder. You can remove it after you finish your check.
> 
> You can check your Git configuration with `git config --global -l` you should see:
> 
> ```
> http.https://source.foundries.io.extraheader=Authorization: basic <yourToken on base64>
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Google Repo: Fetch Yocto Project Layers

Google's Repo application handles fetching the repositories (Yocto Project layers) that will be used in the build process.

Use these commands to:

1. create a `.bin` folder to install the `repo` application in
2. add it to the system `PATH` so you will be able to use the `repo` command anywhere
3. download repo into `.bin`
4. set permission so that all users and run it.

```
mkdir -p ~/builds/.bin
PATH="${HOME}/builds/.bin:${PATH}"
curl https://storage.googleapis.com/git-repo-downloads/repo > ~/builds/.bin/repo
chmod a+rx ~/builds/.bin/repo
```

Now you should be able to access the command `repo` anywhere.

### Set up Your Repository

Switch to your build directory and create a folder to store the source code:

```
cd ~/builds/
mkdir portenta-x8
cd portenta-x8

> ```
> 
> Get your repository link. If you do not have a FoundriesFactory subscription, use the Public repository link, otherwise you can use your Factory repository link:
> 
> - Public repository: [lmp-manifest](https://github.com/arduino/lmp-manifest) -> https://github.com/arduino/lmp-manifest.git
> - Your Factory repository: `https://source.foundries.io/factories/<yourFactory>/lmp-manifest` -> `https://source.foundries.io/factories/<yourFactory>/lmp-manifest.git`
> 
> Now initialize the repository:
> 
> ```
> repo init -u <repository> -m arduino.xml -b <master/devel>
> ```

Reviewer 2: Branch name from https://github.com/arduino/lmp-manifest is `release`.
Please change the note formatting accordingly.
```suggestion
repo init -u https://github.com/arduino/lmp-manifest.git -m arduino.xml -b release

NOTE: If you are a FoundriesFactory subscriber and want to build your Factory sources locally, please use the manifest link for your Factory as below. This is not recommended as images build locally cannot register to the Factory and receive OTAs.
- Your Factory repository: `https://source.foundries.io/factories/<yourFactory>/lmp-manifest.git`
```

Reviewer 2: This would be a good place to link a new tutorial on how to trigger builds in a derived factory.

This tutorial targets customers that are not FoundriesFactory subscribers, but still want to extend the functionality of the Arduino pre-built sources by building their own images. For FoundriesFactory subscribers, we strongly suggest making use of your Factory's continuous integration system for creating images.***

## Goals

- Build a "builder" Docker image
- Get the required files
- Configure the build settings
- Build the image
- Save the needed files for flashing

### Required Hardware and Software

- [Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)

## Instructions

### Docker

#### Build the Docker Image

You will create a Docker image that has the dependencies needed to build your device image.

To do so you will need to clone our [lmp-manifest repository](https://github.com/arduino/lmp-manifest):

1. Clone the lmp-manifest repository
  ```
  git clone https://github.com/arduino/lmp-manifest.git
  ```
  ![Cloning lmp-manifest repository](assets/git_clone_lmp-manifest.png)
2. Build the Docker Image:
  ```
  cd lmp-manifest
  docker build -t yocto-build ./lmp-manifest
  ```
  ![Building a Docker Image](assets/docker_build.png)

#### Run The Docker Image (Builder)

> Run the image with the `-v` argument to mount a volume. This allows you to use a host directory inside the Docker image, so you can store all the data and build artifacts safely.

Author: True, I can check the sizes.
Reusing the data you mean the DISTROs folders?

> Run the image with the `-v` argument to mount a volume. This allows you to use a host directory inside the Docker image, so you can store all the data and build artifacts safely.

Author: Addressed the needed storage at 1445b0a

***If you do not use a volume while running the image, you will lose the data when the image stops***

Run the `yocto-build` builder image with:
```
docker run -v <source>:/dockerVolume -it yocto-build bash
```

Switch to the `builder` user, the password is **builder**:
```
su builder
```

### Setup and Build

***You can download a [bash script](assets/portenta-x8_build.sh) that wraps all the upcoming steps.***

#### Setup the Environment

Now that you are running inside the Docker Image, you can use tools like **git-repo**, which is already installed.

First configure git with your credentials. They don't need to be the real ones, but are required by `git-repo` to pull.
Copy paste the following:
```
git config --global user.email "you@example.com"
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
```
![Adding credentials to git config](assets/git_config.png)

Change to the home directory, and initialize the repository using **repo**:
```
cd ~
repo init -u https://github.com/arduino/lmp-manifest.git -m arduino.xml -b release
```
![Git-repo initialization](assets/repo_init.png)

Then pull the needed files:
```

> sudo repo sync

Author: It is not, forgot to remove it, nice spotting

- `lmp`: secure image without xwayland
- `lmp-xwayland`: secure image with xwayland support

***`lmp-partner-arduino-image` will be better supported in the near future.***

```bash
DISTRO=lmp-xwayland MACHINE=portenta-x8 . setup-environment
```

It will then switch automatically to a new folder.
Now to accept the EULA:

```bash
echo "ACCEPT_FSL_EULA = \"1\"" >> conf/local.conf
```

![Setup Portenta X8 DISTRO](assets/x8_distro_setup.png)

#### Build Image With Bitbake

To start building the image, run:

```
bitbake lmp-partner-arduino-image
```
***This process takes ~7h depending on the HW***

![Compile Portenta X8 image](assets/x8_build.png)

In case you want to use your computer while it builds, (which is going to take time and resources) you should lower the threads used.
Do so by opening `conf/local.conf` and lower the values of the following variables:

- `BB_NUMBER_PARSE_THREADS = "4"`
- `BB_NUMBER_THREADS = "4"`

And add:

- `PARALLEL_MAKE = "-j 4"`

Once it finishes you will see something similar to:
![Portenta X8 Image finished compilation](assets/x8_build_finished.png)

#### Setup Manufacturing Tools

> To flash your board you will need to compile another distro to get additional tools. 

Author: Sounds good

---
beta: true
title: 'How To build a custom image for your Portenta X8'
description: 'This tutorial teaches you how to compile a custom image for your Portenta X8 through USB'
difficulty: intermediate
tags:
  - Embedded Linux
  - Building
  - Foundries.io
author: 'Pablo Marquínez'
hardware:
  - hardware/04.pro/boards/portenta-x8
---

## Overview

In this tutorial you will learn how to build an image for the Portenta X8 with the files provided from Foundries.io.

***In this tutorial we are using Ubuntu LTS 22.04 inside the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) through the Windows Terminal***

## Goals

> - Make sure your Ubuntu machine has access to internet

Reviewer 3: Is this a goal or a requirement?

Author: Requirement, can be removed

- Provide your Linux machine with the needed software
- Set up your computer with the required SSH keys and API Tokens
- Get the required files
- Configure the building settings
- Build the image

### Required Hardware and Software

> - [Portenta X8](https://store.arduino.cc/portenta-x8)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Arduino Portenta X8](https://store.arduino.cc/portenta-x8)
```

- Linux distribution [compatible with the Yocto Project](https://docs.yoctoproject.org/ref-manual/system-requirements.html#supported-linux-distributions)
- Arduino Create account [Login](https://login.arduino.cc/login)
- Arduino Pro Cloud Subscription. [Learn more about the Pro Cloud](https://www.arduino.cc/pro/hardware/product/portenta-x8#pro-cloud).
- Foundries.io account (linked with the Pro Cloud subscription) [Login](https://app.foundries.io/login/)
- FoundriesFactory® ([Check the Getting Started tutorial](https://docs.arduino.cc/tutorials/portenta-x8/out-of-the-box))

## Instructions

### Folder Structure Overview

First we need to structure our directories as following:

```
home
└── builds
  ├── portenta-x8
  └── .bin
    └── repo
```

> To start, lets navigate to the home directory with `cd ~`, and create the build directory with `mkdir builds`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To start, lets navigate to the home directory within the Portenta X8 with `cd ~`, and create the build directory with `mkdir builds`.
```

Author: this is on your machine, not the X8

> To start, lets navigate to the home directory with `cd ~`, and create the build directory with `mkdir builds`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To start, let's navigate to the home directory with `cd ~`, and create the build directory with `mkdir builds`.
```

### Setup SSH Keys and Foundries API Token

To get the needed image files, you need to have an SSH key and an API Token from **FoundriesFactory**.

#### SSH Key

To setup your SSH Key, go to the `.ssh` directory, `cd ~/.ssh`. Crete a new key with `ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C <yourEmail>"`.

Follow the instructions, after which you should have two new files in the directory: `<yourSSHkey> and <yourSSHkey>.pub`

Now initialize the `ssh-agent` with `eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"`. Add your key with `ssh-add ~/.ssh/<yourSSHkey>`.

***Make sure your `ssh-agent` is running, you can check the keys that your agent has with the command `ssh-add -l` if there is no key attached repeat the steps of adding the key and check if it was successfully added***

#### Foundries.io API Token

***This step is only mandatory if you want to get the source code from your Factory***

To get the needed files (source code) for compiling the image we need access to our Factory repository.

> To make that happen, browse to your [Foundries account > Settings > Api Tokens](https://app.foundries.io/settings/tokens/):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To make that happen, go to your [Foundries account > Settings > Api Tokens](https://app.foundries.io/settings/tokens/):
```

1. create a `.bin` folder to install the `repo` application in
2. add it to the system `PATH` so you will be able to use the `repo` command anywhere
3. download repo into `.bin`
4. set permission so that all users and run it.

```
mkdir -p ~/builds/.bin
PATH="${HOME}/builds/.bin:${PATH}"
curl https://storage.googleapis.com/git-repo-downloads/repo > ~/builds/.bin/repo
chmod a+rx ~/builds/.bin/repo
```

Now you should be able to access the command `repo` anywhere.

### Set up Your Repository

Switch to your build directory and create a folder to store the source code:

```
cd ~/builds/
mkdir portenta-x8
cd portenta-x8
```

Get your repository link:

- Public repository: [lmp-manifest](https://github.com/arduino/lmp-manifest) -> https://github.com/arduino/lmp-manifest.git
- Your Factory repository: `https://source.foundries.io/factories/<yourFactory>/lmp-manifest` -> `https://source.foundries.io/factories/<yourFactory>/lmp-manifest.git`

Now initialize the repository:

```
repo init -u <repository> -m arduino.xml -b <master/devel>
```

You can now download the files you will need by running `repo sync`.

### Build The Image

#### Set Up The Environment

You can set `DISTRO` to:

> - `base`: unsecure image without ostree and optee
> - `Lmp`: secure image without xwayland
> - `lmp-xwayland`: secure image with xwayland support

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `lmp-base`: unsecure image without ostree and optee
- `lmp`: secure image without xwayland
- `lmp-xwayland`: secure image with xwayland support
```

> ***`lmp-partner-arduino-image` will be better supported in the near future.***

Reviewer 2: Is lmp-partner-arduino-image a distro or an image? I would say it's an image (built with bitbake) but wanted to check

Author: It is, but not sure if it is also a future DISTRO 🤔

Author: It is only the image name
